README.md, before:


<div align="center">
    <a href="https://github.com/RedisVentures/redis-arXiv-search"><img src="https://github.com/RedisVentures/redis-arXiv-search/blob/main/backend/vecsim_app/data/redis-logo.png?raw=true" width="30%"><img></a>
    <br />
    <br />
<div display="inline-block">
    <a href="https://docsearch.redisventures.com"><b>Hosted Demo</b></a>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
    <a href="https://github.com/RedisVentures/redis-arXiv-search"><b>Code</b></a>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
    <a href="https://datasciencedojo.com/blog/ai-powered-document-search/"><b>Blog Post</b></a>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
    <a href="https://redis.io/docs/stack/search/reference/vectors/"><b>Redis VSS Documentation</b></a>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
  </div>
    <br />
    <br />
</div>

# 🔎 Redis arXiv Search
*This repository is the official codebase for the arxiv paper search app hosted at: **https://docsearch.redisventures.com***

Through the [RediSearch](https://redis.io/docs/stack/search/reference/vectors/) module, vector data types and search indexes can be added to Redis. This turns Redis into a highly performant, in-memory, vector database, which can be used for many types of applications.

___

Here we showcase Redis vector similarity search (VSS) applied to a document search/retrieval use case. Read more about AI-powered search in [our blog post](https://datasciencedojo.com/blog/ai-powered-document-search/) hosted at Data Science Dojo.


![Demo](data/assets/arXivSearch.png)

## Application

This app was built as a Single Page Application (SPA) with the following components:

- **[Redis Stack](https://redis.io/docs/stack/)**: Vector database + JSON storage
- **[FastAPI](https://fastapi.tiangolo.com/)** (Python 3.8)
- **[Pydantic](https://pydantic-docs.helpmanual.io/)** for schema and validation
- **[React](https://reactjs.org/)** (with Typescript)
- **[Redis OM](https://redis.io/docs/stack/get-started/tutorials/stack-python/)** for ORM
- **[Docker Compose](https://docs.docker.com/compose/)** for development
- **[MaterialUI](https://material-ui.com/)** for some UI elements/components
- **[React-Bootstrap](https://react-bootstrap.github.io/)** for some UI elements
- **[Huggingface Tokenizers + Models](https://huggingface.co/sentence-transformers)** for vector embedding creation

Some inspiration was taken from this [Cookiecutter project](https://github.com/Buuntu/fastapi-react)
and turned into a SPA application instead of a separate front-end server approach.

### Dataset

The arXiv dataset was sourced from the the following [Kaggle link](https://www.kaggle.com/Cornell-University/arxiv).

If you wish to modify or work with your own data...download and extract the zip and place the resulting json file (`arxiv-metadata-oai-snapshot.json`) in the `data/` directory.

## 🚀 Running the App
Before running the app, install [Docker Desktop](https://www.docker.com/products/docker-desktop/).

1. To get started, make a copy of the `.env.template` file:
```bash
$ cp .env.template .env
```

2. Add your `OPENAI_API_KEY` to the `.env` file. **Need one?** Get an API key at https://platform.openai.com.

Both **Redis Stack** and the application backend run with **Docker Compose** using pre-built containers. **Choose one of the methods below based on your Redis setup.**

### Redis Cloud

1. [Get a Redis Cloud Database](https://app.redislabs.com/) (with the RediSearch module included).

2. Update the `REDIS_HOST`, `REDIS_PASSWORD`, and `REDIS_PORT` environment variables in the `.env` file created above.:

3. Run the App:
    ```bash
    $ docker compose -f docker-cloud-redis.yml up
    ```

### Redis Stack Docker
Use the provided Dockerfiles and open source containers to run the application locally:
```bash
$ docker compose -f docker-local-redis.yml up
```

### Customizing (optional)
You can use the Jupyter Notebooks in the [`data/`](data/README.md) directory to create paper embeddings and metadata. The pickled dataframes will end up stored in the `data/` directory and used when creating your own container.

Use the `build.sh` script to create your own docker image, and then make sure to update the `.yml` file with the right image name.

### Running with Kubernetes
If you want to use K8s instead of Docker Compose, we have some [resources to help you get started](k8s/README.md).

### Using a React development env
It's typically easier to write front end code in an interactive environment, testing changes in realtime.

1. Deploy the app using steps above.
2. Install packages (you may need to use `npm` to install `yarn`)
    ```bash
    $ cd frontend/
    $ yarn install --no-optional
    ````
4. Use `yarn` to serve the application from your machine
    ```bash
    $ yarn start
    ```
5. Navigate to `http://localhost:3000` in a browser.

All changes to your local code will be reflected in your display in semi realtime.

### Using a React dev env
It's typically easier to manipulate front end code in an interactive environment (**outside of Docker**) where one can test out code changes in real time. In order to use this approach:

1. Follow steps from previous section with Docker Compose to deploy the backend API.
2. `cd gui/` directory and use `yarn` to install packages: `yarn install --no-optional` (you may need to use `npm` to install `yarn`).
3. Use `yarn` to serve the application from your machine: `yarn start`.
4. Navigate to `http://localhost:3000` in a browser.
5. Make front end changes in realtime.

### Troubleshooting
Sometimes you need to clear out some Docker cached artifacts. Run `docker system prune`, restart Docker Desktop, and try again.

Open an issue here on GitHub and we will try to be responsive to these. Additionally, please consider [contributing](CONTRIBUTING.md).

Commit message:

Add cohere embeddings (#17)
* update readme and gitignore
* update gitignore
* add backend components for cohere provider
* enable cohere for embeddings on front end
* update notebook and env file template

README.md, after:


<div align="center">
    <a href="https://github.com/RedisVentures/redis-arXiv-search"><img src="https://github.com/RedisVentures/redis-arXiv-search/blob/main/backend/vecsim_app/data/redis-logo.png?raw=true" width="30%"><img></a>
    <br />
    <br />
<div display="inline-block">
    <a href="https://docsearch.redisventures.com"><b>Hosted Demo</b></a>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
    <a href="https://github.com/RedisVentures/redis-arXiv-search"><b>Code</b></a>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
    <a href="https://datasciencedojo.com/blog/ai-powered-document-search/"><b>Blog Post</b></a>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
    <a href="https://redis.io/docs/stack/search/reference/vectors/"><b>Redis VSS Documentation</b></a>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
  </div>
    <br />
    <br />
</div>

# 🔎 Redis arXiv Search
*This repository is the official codebase for the arxiv paper search app hosted at: **https://docsearch.redisventures.com***

Through the [RediSearch](https://redis.io/docs/stack/search/reference/vectors/) module, vector data types and search indexes can be added to Redis. This turns Redis into a highly performant, in-memory, vector database, which can be used for many types of applications.

___

Here we showcase Redis vector similarity search (VSS) applied to a document search/retrieval use case. Read more about AI-powered search in [our blog post](https://datasciencedojo.com/blog/ai-powered-document-search/) hosted at Data Science Dojo.


![Demo](data/assets/arXivSearch.png)

## Application

This app was built as a Single Page Application (SPA) with the following components:

- **[Redis Stack](https://redis.io/docs/stack/)**: Vector database + JSON storage
- **[FastAPI](https://fastapi.tiangolo.com/)** (Python 3.8)
- **[Pydantic](https://pydantic-docs.helpmanual.io/)** for schema and validation
- **[React](https://reactjs.org/)** (with Typescript)
- **[Redis OM](https://redis.io/docs/stack/get-started/tutorials/stack-python/)** for ORM
- **[Docker Compose](https://docs.docker.com/compose/)** for development
- **[MaterialUI](https://material-ui.com/)** for some UI elements/components
- **[React-Bootstrap](https://react-bootstrap.github.io/)** for some UI elements
- **[Huggingface Tokenizers + Models](https://huggingface.co/sentence-transformers)** for vector embedding creation

Some inspiration was taken from this [Cookiecutter project](https://github.com/Buuntu/fastapi-react)
and turned into a SPA application instead of a separate front-end server approach.

### Embedding Providers
As a way to expose the different capabilities of embedding providers, this applications supports `HuggingFace`, `OpenAI`, and `Cohere` embeddings out of the box. Interested in a different embedding provider? Feel free to open a PR and make a suggested addition.

| Provider        | Embedding Model           | Required?  |
| ------------- |-------------| ----- |
| HuggingFace      | `sentence-transformers/all-mpnet-base-v2` | Yes |
| OpenAI      | `text-embedding-ada-002`      |   Yes |
| Cohere | `small`      |    Yes |


### Dataset

The arXiv dataset was sourced from the the following [Kaggle link](https://www.kaggle.com/Cornell-University/arxiv).

If you wish to modify or work with your own data...download and extract the zip and place the resulting json file (`arxiv-metadata-oai-snapshot.json`) in the `data/` directory.

## 🚀 Running the App
Before running the app, install [Docker Desktop](https://www.docker.com/products/docker-desktop/).

1. To get started, make a copy of the `.env.template` file:
```bash
$ cp .env.template .env
```

2. Add your `OPENAI_API_KEY` to the `.env` file. **Need one?** Get an API key at https://platform.openai.com.
3. Add you `COHERE_API_KEY` to the `.env` file. **Need one?** Get an API key at https://cohere.ai.

Both **Redis Stack** and the application backend run with **Docker Compose** using pre-built containers. **Choose one of the methods below based on your Redis setup.**

### Redis Cloud

1. [Get a Redis Cloud Database](https://app.redislabs.com/) (with the RediSearch module included).

2. Update the `REDIS_HOST`, `REDIS_PASSWORD`, and `REDIS_PORT` environment variables in the `.env` file created above.:

3. Run the App:
    ```bash
    $ docker compose -f docker-cloud-redis.yml up
    ```

### Redis Stack Docker
Use the provided Dockerfiles and open source containers to run the application locally:
```bash
$ docker compose -f docker-local-redis.yml up
```

### Customizing (optional)
You can use the Jupyter Notebooks in the [`data/`](data/README.md) directory to create paper embeddings and metadata. The pickled dataframes will end up stored in the `data/` directory and used when creating your own container.

You can the `build.sh` script to create your own docker image, and then make sure to update the `.yml` file with the right image name if necessary.

### Running with Kubernetes
If you want to use K8s instead of Docker Compose, we have some [resources to help you get started](k8s/README.md).

### Using a React development env
It's typically easier to write front end code in an interactive environment, testing changes in realtime.

1. Deploy the app using steps above.
2. Install packages (you may need to use `npm` to install `yarn`)
    ```bash
    $ cd frontend/
    $ yarn install --no-optional
    ````
4. Use `yarn` to serve the application from your machine
    ```bash
    $ yarn start
    ```
5. Navigate to `http://localhost:3000` in a browser.

All changes to your local code will be reflected in your display in semi realtime.

### Using a React dev env
It's typically easier to manipulate front end code in an interactive environment (**outside of Docker**) where one can test out code changes in real time. In order to use this approach:

1. Follow steps from previous section with Docker Compose to deploy the backend API.
2. `cd gui/` directory and use `yarn` to install packages: `yarn install --no-optional` (you may need to use `npm` to install `yarn`).
3. Use `yarn` to serve the application from your machine: `yarn start`.
4. Navigate to `http://localhost:3000` in a browser.
5. Make front end changes in realtime.

### Troubleshooting
Sometimes you need to clear out some Docker cached artifacts. Run `docker system prune`, restart Docker Desktop, and try again.

Open an issue here on GitHub and we will try to be responsive to these. Additionally, please consider [contributing](CONTRIBUTING.md).
